[MUSIC]
Welcome to Kubernetes Objects, Part 2.
After watching this video, you will
be able to, describe the purposes,
properties, and uses of a service,
describe the roles and uses for
the ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer,
and External Name Services, and
describe the roles and uses for Ingress,
Daemonset, StatefulSet, and a Job.
A service is a REST object, like Pods.
Services are a logical abstraction for
a set of Pods in a cluster.
They provide policies for
accessing the Pods in cluster and
act as a load balancer across the Pods.
Each service is assigned
a unique IP address for
accessing applications deployed on Pods,
and
a service eliminates the need for
a separate service discovery process.
A service supports multiple protocols such
as TCP, which is the default protocol,
UDP, and others, and
supports multiple port definitions.
The port number with the same name
can vary in each backend Pod.
In addition, a service can
have an optional selector and
can optionally map incoming
ports to a target port.
Next, let's learn why a service is needed.
A service is needed because Pods
in a cluster can be destroyed and
new Pods can be created at any time.
This volatility leads to discoverability
issues because of changing IP addresses.
A service keeps track of Pod changes and
exposes a single IP address or
a DNS name, and utilizes
selectors to target a set of Pods.
For native Kubernetes applications,
API endpoints are updated whenever changes
are detected to the Pods in the service.
For non-native applications, Kubernetes
uses a virtua- IP-based bridge or
load balancer in between
the applications and the backend Pods.
There are 4 types of Cluster IP, NodePort,
LoadBalancer, and External Name.
Let's learn about each service type.
Cluster IP is the default and
most common service type.
Kubernetes assigns a cluster internal
IP address to the cluster IP service
that makes the service only
reachable within the cluster.
A cluster IP service cannot make requests
to service from outside the cluster.
You can set the cluster IP address in the
service definition file, and the cluster
IP service provides inter service
communication within the cluster, for
example, communication between the front
end and backend components of your app.
An extension of Cluster IP Service,
a NodePort Service creates and
routes the incoming requests
automatically to the cluster IP service.
A NodePort exposes the service on each
node's IP address at a static port.
Note that for security purposes,
production use is not recommended.
Kubernetes exposes a single service
with no load balancing requirements for
multiple services.
An extension of the NodePort service,
an external load balancer, or
ELB, creates NodePort and
Cluster IP services automatically.
An ELB integrates and automatically
directs traffic to the NodePort service.
To expose a service to the Internet,
you need a new ELB with an IP address.
You can use a cloud provider's
ELB to host your cluster.
The external name service
type maps to a DNS name and
not to any selector and
requires a spec.externalName parameter.
The external name service maps the service
to the contents of the external name
field that returns a CNAME record and
its value.
You can use an external name to create
a service that represents external
storage and enables Pods from different
namespaces to talk to each other.
Next, Ingress is an API object that,
when combined with a controller,
provides routing rules to
manage external users access
to multiple services in
a Kubernetes cluster.
In production,
Ingress exposes applications to
the Internet via port 80 for
HTTP or port 443 for HTTPs.
While the cluster monitors Ingress,
an external load balancer is expensive and
is managed outside the cluster.
A DaemonSet is an object that makes
sure that nodes run a copy of a Pod.
As nodes are added to a cluster,
Pods are added to the nodes.
Pods are garbage collected
when removed from a cluster.
If you delete a DaemonSet,
all Pods are removed.
DaemonSets are ideally used for
storage, logs, and monitoring nodes.
A StatefulSet is an object that
manages stateful applications,
manages deployment and
scaling of Pods, and
provides guarantees about the ordering and
uniqueness of Pods.
A StatefulSet maintains a sticky
identity for each Pod request, and
provides persistent storage volumes for
your workloads.
And lastly, a Job creates Pods and
tracks the Pod completion process.
Jobs are retried until completed.
Deleting a Job will
remove the created Pods.
Suspending a Job will delete its
active Pods until the Job resumes.
A Job can run several Pods in parallel and
CronJobs are regularly used to create
Jobs on an iterative schedule.
In this video, you learn that,
a service in Kubernetes is a REST
object that provides policies for
accessing the Pods and cluster.
Cluster IP is the default and
most common service type and
provides inter service
communication within the cluster.
An extension of Cluster IP Service,
a NodePort Service creates and
routes the incoming requests
automatically to the Cluster IP Service.
An extension of the NodePort Service,
an External Load Balancer creates NodePort
and Cluster IP Services automatically.
An Ingress is an API object that,
when combined with a controller,
provides routing rules to manage external
users' access to multiple
services in a Kubernetes cluster.
You also learned that using a DaemonSet
ensures that there is at least one
instance of the Pod on all your nodes.
You can use External Name to create
a Service that represents external storage
and enables Pods from different
namespaces to talk to each other.
A StatefulSet manages stateful
applications, manages Pod deployment and
scaling, maintains a sticky identity for
each Pod request, and
provides persistent storage volumes for
your workloads.
And finally, a Job creates Pods and
tracks the Pod completion process.
Jobs are retried until completed.
[MUSIC]